README.md, before:

# Agentic RAG Agent

**Agentic RAG Agent** is a chat application that combines models with retrieval-augmented generation.
It allows users to ask questions based on custom knowledge bases, documents, and web data, retrieve context-aware answers, and maintain chat history across sessions.

> Note: Fork and clone this repository if needed

### 1. Create a virtual environment

```shell
uv venv .venv
.venv\Scripts\activate
```

### 2. Install dependencies

```shell
uv pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 3. Configure API Keys

Required:
```bash
export GROQ_API_KEY=your_groq_key_here
```

Optional (for additional models):
```bash
export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your_anthropic_key_here
export GOOGLE_API_KEY=your_google_key_here
```

> Note: OpenAI API key is no longer required as we're using the open-source BGE embedder for vector embeddings.

### 4. Run PgVector

> Install [docker desktop](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/mac-install/) first.

- Run using a helper script (make it executable first)

```shell
chmod +x run_pgvector.sh
./run_pgvector.sh
```

- If you get a container name conflict error, you can either:
  - Use the existing container if it's the same image: `docker start pgvector`
  - Remove the old container: `docker rm pgvector` and then run the script again

- OR run using the docker run command

```shell
docker run -d \
  -e POSTGRES_DB=ai \
  -e POSTGRES_USER=ai \
  -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=ai \
  -e PGDATA=/var/lib/postgresql/data/pgdata \
  -v pgvolume:/var/lib/postgresql/data \
  -p 5532:5432 \
  --name pgvector \
  agnohq/pgvector:16
```

### 5. Run Agentic RAG App

```shell
streamlit run app.py
```

## 🔧 Customization

### Model Selection

#### LLM Providers
The application supports multiple LLM providers:
- Groq (meta-llama/llama-4-scout-17b-16e-instruct, llama-3.3-70b-versatile) - Default
- OpenAI (o3-mini, gpt-4o)
- Anthropic (claude-3-5-sonnet)
- Google (gemini-2.0-flash-exp)

#### Embedding Model
The application uses the open-source BGE Large embedding model:
- **Model**: BAAI/bge-large-en-v1.5
- **Dimensions**: 1024
- **Benefits**: Free, runs locally, high-quality embeddings for RAG applications

### How to Use
- Open [localhost:8501](http://localhost:8501) in your browser.
- Upload documents or provide URLs (websites, csv, txt, and PDFs) to build a knowledge base.
- Enter questions in the chat interface and get context-aware answers.
- The app can also answer question using duckduckgo search without any external documents added.

### Troubleshooting
- **Docker Connection Refused**: Ensure `pgvector` container is running (`docker ps`).
- **Container Name Conflict**: If you get an error about the container name already in use, see the instructions in the "Run PgVector" section.
- **Groq API Errors**: Verify that the `GROQ_API_KEY` is set and valid.
- **Embedding Model Issues**: If you encounter issues with the BGE embedder, ensure you have enough disk space for the model download (~1.3GB) and that your Python environment has the required dependencies installed.

## 📚 Documentation

For more detailed information:
- [Agno Documentation](https://docs.agno.com)
- [Streamlit Documentation](https://docs.streamlit.io)

Commit message:

Fix OpenAI dependency issues while maintaining BGE embedder

README.md, after:

# Agentic RAG Agent

**Agentic RAG Agent** is a chat application that combines models with retrieval-augmented generation.
It allows users to ask questions based on custom knowledge bases, documents, and web data, retrieve context-aware answers, and maintain chat history across sessions.

> Note: Fork and clone this repository if needed

### 1. Create a virtual environment

```shell
uv venv .venv
.venv\Scripts\activate
```

### 2. Install dependencies

```shell
uv pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 3. Configure API Keys

Required:
```bash
export GROQ_API_KEY=your_groq_key_here
```

Optional (for additional models):
```bash
export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your_anthropic_key_here
export GOOGLE_API_KEY=your_google_key_here
```

> Note: While we're using the open-source BGE embedder for vector embeddings, the OpenAI API key is still needed if you want to use OpenAI models (o3-mini, gpt-4o).

### 4. Run PgVector

> Install [docker desktop](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/mac-install/) first.

- Run using a helper script (make it executable first)

```shell
chmod +x run_pgvector.sh
./run_pgvector.sh
```

- If you get a container name conflict error, you can either:
  - Use the existing container if it's the same image: `docker start pgvector`
  - Remove the old container: `docker rm pgvector` and then run the script again

- OR run using the docker run command

```shell
docker run -d \
  -e POSTGRES_DB=ai \
  -e POSTGRES_USER=ai \
  -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=ai \
  -e PGDATA=/var/lib/postgresql/data/pgdata \
  -v pgvolume:/var/lib/postgresql/data \
  -p 5532:5432 \
  --name pgvector \
  agnohq/pgvector:16
```

### 5. Run Agentic RAG App

```shell
streamlit run app.py
```

## 🔧 Customization

### Model Selection

#### LLM Providers
The application supports multiple LLM providers:
- Groq (meta-llama/llama-4-scout-17b-16e-instruct, llama-3.3-70b-versatile) - Default
- OpenAI (o3-mini, gpt-4o)
- Anthropic (claude-3-5-sonnet)
- Google (gemini-2.0-flash-exp)

#### Embedding Model
The application uses the open-source BGE Large embedding model:
- **Model**: BAAI/bge-large-en-v1.5
- **Dimensions**: 1024
- **Benefits**: Free, runs locally, high-quality embeddings for RAG applications

### How to Use
- Open [localhost:8501](http://localhost:8501) in your browser.
- Upload documents or provide URLs (websites, csv, txt, and PDFs) to build a knowledge base.
- Enter questions in the chat interface and get context-aware answers.
- The app can also answer question using duckduckgo search without any external documents added.

### Troubleshooting
- **Docker Connection Refused**: Ensure `pgvector` container is running (`docker ps`).
- **Container Name Conflict**: If you get an error about the container name already in use, see the instructions in the "Run PgVector" section.
- **Groq API Errors**: Verify that the `GROQ_API_KEY` is set and valid.
- **Embedding Model Issues**: If you encounter issues with the BGE embedder, ensure you have enough disk space for the model download (~1.3GB) and that your Python environment has the required dependencies installed.

## 📚 Documentation

For more detailed information:
- [Agno Documentation](https://docs.agno.com)
- [Streamlit Documentation](https://docs.streamlit.io)
